welcome to the newsour the United States
has once again vetoed a draft resolution
on Gaza at the UN Security Council it's
the third veto by the us since the start
of the war the text put forward by
Algeria called for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire and had 13
members voting in favor of it the US was
the only country to vote against
it we are rapidly approaching a critical
juncture
where the call to Hal the Machinery of
violence will lose its
significance
today every Palestinian is a target for
death
extermination and
genocide we should ask ask
ourselves how many innocent
lives must be
sacrificed before before the council
deems it necessary to call for a
ceasefire now the US ambassador to the
UN says that while they rejected the
text presented by Algeria they'll be
putting forward a rival resolution
calling for a temporary
ceasefire while numerous parties engage
in sensitive negotiations this is not
the time for this resolution which je
jeopardizes these efforts colleagues I
communicated our concerns publicly and
privately over the last several weeks
we've submitted numerous rounds of edits
all were ignored and so for that reason
the United States has offered an
alternative resolution that would do
what this text does
not pressure Hamas to take the hostage
deal that is on the table and help
secure a pause that allows humanitarian
assistance to reach Palestinian
civilians in desperate
need well moment we'll get reaction in
Gaza with our correspondent T Abu but
first let's cross over to our diplomatic
editor James Bay at the United Nations
and James often diplomats play their
cards very close to their chess when it
comes to voting in the security Council
but I think we had an inkling of what
was going to happen
today oh we knew what was going to
happen today and I'm afraid we're seeing
exactly the same picture that we've seen
a number of times before this is the
third sorry the fourth time that the us
has vetoed the idea of a Ceasar in the
UN Security Council and remember this
resolution demanding an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza would have passed if
it wasn't for the United States uh using
its veto power as a permanent member of
the security Council every other member
of the security Council voted for it
apart from the UK the UK Ambassador
Barbara Woodward is explaining her vote
to the security Council right now they
abstained though even though though
they're also a permanent member that
would not have blocked it it's only the
US that again has blocked this from
happening uh and says this is not the
right time and says it's coming up with
its own resolution and says that it
needs to delay and negotiate that but of
course in Gaza delay means death every
single day Israel is killing more and
more Palestinians and that is what will
result from this uh resolution it's
worth giving you the US reason the main
reason which they say is those ongoing
negotiations uh that have taken place uh
involving Israel involving Hamas
indirectly uh and with the
intermediaries of Qatar and Egypt but we
know those negotiations are not going
particularly well and we know that two
of the key players Egypt and Qatar do
not have any problem with that uh
resolution that Algeria was uh promoting
and that was voted down by the US just
now in fact they supported that
resolution and James looking ahead
obviously the US now wants to present
its own version of a resolution the
question will be will it be accepted by
the security Council because one of the
most sort of vifer replies to what
happened today came from Russia's
Ambassador at the security
Council yeah the r the Russians very
very strong on this they're making the
point that they were the very first uh
in the security Council resolution or
draft resolution that didn't get adopted
to come up with the idea of a ceasefire
immediate ceasefire that was back in
October when the death toll was about a
th000 and now the death toll stands at
about 30,000 so on this issue Russia
believes that it has the moral High
Ground uh what will happen with regard
to the U this us um uh draft resolution
it's not actually even been formally
presented to the security Council by the
United States uh we believe that will
happen in the coming days and they don't
seem to be in a great hurry uh they say
um they've said to reporters they're not
a great hurry to see a security Council
uh resolution in place but they've put
for what they say are the ideas they'd
like to see eventually in a resolution
it's quite a extensive document the US
have presented um some of it talking
about reconstruction of Gaza and things
that are much further down the line
there are elements there that I think
will be supported by much of the
security Council particularly a
paragraph on Rafa in which the US says
that an Israeli ground offensive should
not uh proceed but there are other parts
of it particularly on the language of a
ceasefire um everyone on the security
Council with the exception of the UK and
the US wants to see an immediate Ceasar
forced by the security Council now this
new resolution talks about a temporary
Ceasar as soon as is practicable so the
idea of a Ceasar not one being ordered
right now by the security Council and I
think that may well be a deal break for
other members of the council but as I
say I think we're looking at a period
now again of negotiation on that uh us
text but I suspect other council members
will also uh be trying to add things to
that text or take things out of that
text James B is our diplomatic editor
there at the UN thank you let's cross
over to rafan hour TK Abu aom uh joins
us now and T I suppose hopes of a a
ceasefire dashed once again for people
who were living in Hope
yes in fact soell Palestinians are
seeing that the uh the the window of
hope is getting much more narrow right
now after the US rejection of the
Algerian uh draft for a ceas fire
proposal that might bring an end for the
fighting here on the ground but
Palestinians in fact has a great
sentiment now of frustration as been as
they have been seeing that all
diplomatic efforts have been shut down
by Israel's closes to lay as a kind kind
of further permission to continue their
atrocities and their genocidal acts here
on the ground in sight Gaz as
bombardment continue to unfolding all
the all parts of the territory and
alongside that people within this
rejection will be also much more uh uh
living under unhuman conditions
specifically people in the northern part
of Gaza and with the predictable
suspension of a deliveries by the world
food program to the Norther part of the
territory it seems that going to be much
more difficult days for Palestinians in
the north to uh experience specifically
that negotiations are still going on in
Egypt for uh reaching GIS fire but till
now there is no any kind of serious
break through in terms of uh these
efforts as Palestinians here are really
hoping that they might uh reach to an
end for the fighting on the ground but
they are completely right now have been
let down again by the American
Administration to stop the bloodshed